README.md, before:

# NerdDice
Nerd dice allows you to roll polyhedral dice and add bonuses as you would in a tabletop roleplaying game. You can choose to roll multiple dice and keep a specified number of dice such as rolling 4d6 and dropping the lowest for ability scores or rolling with advantage and disadvantage if those mechanics exist in your game.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'nerd_dice'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install nerd_dice

## Usage
### Configuration
You can customize the behavior of NerdDice via a configuration block as below or by assigning an individual property via the ```NerdDice.configuration.property = value``` syntax \(where ```property``` is the config property and ```value``` is the value you want to assign\)\. The available configuration options as well as their defaults, if applicable, are listed in the example configuration block below:

```ruby
NerdDice.configure do | config|

  # number of ability scores to place in an ability score array
  config.ability_score_array_size = 6

  # randomization technique options are:
    # :securerandom => Uses SecureRandom.rand(). Good entropy, medium speed.
    # :random_rand => Uses Random.rand(). Class method. Poor entropy, fastest speed.
      # (Seed is shared with other processes. Too predictable)
    # :random_object => Uses Random.new() and calls rand()
      # Medium entropy, fastest speed. (Performs the best under speed benchmark)
    # :randomized => Uses a random choice of the :securerandom, :rand, and :random_new_interval options above
  config.randomization_technique = :random_object # fast with independent seed

  # Number of iterations to use on a generator before refreshing the seed
    # 1 very slow and heavy pressure on processor and memory but very high entropy
    # 1000 would refresh the object every 1000 times you call rand()
  config.refresh_seed_interval = nil # don't refresh the seed
end
```

### Rolling a number of dice and adding a bonus
```ruby
# roll a single d4
NerdDice.total_dice(4) # => return random Integer between 1-4

# roll 3d6
NerdDice.total_dice(6, 3) => return Integer total of three 6-sided dice

# roll a d20 and add 5 to the value
NerdDice.total_dice(20, 1, { bonus: 5 })
```
__NOTE:__ If provided, the bonus must be an ```Integer``` or it will be ignored

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/statelesscode/nerd_dice/issues. We welcome and encourage your participation in this open-source project. We welcome those of all backgrounds and abilities, but we refuse to adopt the Contributor Covenant for reasons outlined in [BURN_THE_CONTRIBUTOR_COVENANT_WITH_FIRE.md](https://github.com/statelesscode/nerd_dice/blob/master/BURN_THE_CONTRIBUTOR_COVENANT_WITH_FIRE.md)


## Unlicense, License, and Copyright

The document is dual-licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) license and the [UNLICENSE](https://unlicense.org/) \(with strong preference toward the UNLICENSE\)\. The content is released under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/) \(no rights reserved\). You are free to include it in its original form or modified with or without modification in your own project\.

Commit message:

Implement refresh_seed! method
Create the NerdDice.refresh_seed! method that refreshes the random seeds
for the number generator(s), if applicable. The securerandom seed does
not get refreshed. If no arguments are passed, the configured
randomization technique gets its seed(s) refreshed. The
`@count_since_last_refresh` class instance variable for NerdDice gets
refreshed each time the method is called.

The user also has the ability to specify options in the method:

* randomization_technique: the randomization technique to refresh
* random_rand_seed: the new seed for the Random.rand generator
* random_object_seed: Random.new generator

Contributes toward #1

README.md, after:

# NerdDice
Nerd dice allows you to roll polyhedral dice and add bonuses as you would in a tabletop roleplaying game. You can choose to roll multiple dice and keep a specified number of dice such as rolling 4d6 and dropping the lowest for ability scores or rolling with advantage and disadvantage if those mechanics exist in your game.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'nerd_dice'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install nerd_dice

## Usage
### Configuration
You can customize the behavior of NerdDice via a configuration block as below or by assigning an individual property via the ```NerdDice.configuration.property = value``` syntax \(where ```property``` is the config property and ```value``` is the value you want to assign\)\. The available configuration options as well as their defaults, if applicable, are listed in the example configuration block below:

```ruby
NerdDice.configure do | config|

  # number of ability scores to place in an ability score array
  config.ability_score_array_size = 6

  # randomization technique options are:
    # :securerandom => Uses SecureRandom.rand(). Good entropy, medium speed.
    # :random_rand => Uses Random.rand(). Class method. Poor entropy, fastest speed.
      # (Seed is shared with other processes. Too predictable)
    # :random_object => Uses Random.new() and calls rand()
      # Medium entropy, fastest speed. (Performs the best under speed benchmark)
    # :randomized => Uses a random choice of the :securerandom, :rand, and :random_new_interval options above
  config.randomization_technique = :random_object # fast with independent seed

  # Number of iterations to use on a generator before refreshing the seed
    # 1 very slow and heavy pressure on processor and memory but very high entropy
    # 1000 would refresh the object every 1000 times you call rand()
  config.refresh_seed_interval = nil # don't refresh the seed
end
```

### Rolling a number of dice and adding a bonus
```ruby
# roll a single d4
NerdDice.total_dice(4) # => return random Integer between 1-4

# roll 3d6
NerdDice.total_dice(6, 3) => return Integer total of three 6-sided dice

# roll a d20 and add 5 to the value
NerdDice.total_dice(20, 1, { bonus: 5 })
```
__NOTE:__ If provided, the bonus must be an ```Integer``` or it will be ignored

### Manually setting or refreshing the random generator seed
For randomization techniques other than `:securerandom` you can manually set or refresh the generator's seed by calling the `refresh_seed!` method. This is automatically called at the interval specified in `NerdDice.configuration.refresh_seed_interval` if it is not nil.

```ruby
# no arguments, will refresh the seed for the configured generator(s) only
NerdDice.refresh_seed! # => hash with old seed(s) or nil if :securerandom

# OPTIONS:
    #   randomization_technique (Symbol) => NerdDice::RANDOMIZATION_TECHNIQUES
    #   random_rand_seed (Integer) => Seed to set for Random
    #   random_object_seed (Integer) => Seed to set for new Random object
NerdDice.refresh_seed!(randomization_technique:  :randomized,
                       random_rand_seed:         1337,
                       random_object_seed:       24601)
```
__NOTE:__ Ability to specify a seed it primarily provided for testing purposes. This makes all random numbers generated _transparently deterministic_ and should not be used if you want behavior approximating randomness.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/statelesscode/nerd_dice/issues. We welcome and encourage your participation in this open-source project. We welcome those of all backgrounds and abilities, but we refuse to adopt the Contributor Covenant for reasons outlined in [BURN_THE_CONTRIBUTOR_COVENANT_WITH_FIRE.md](https://github.com/statelesscode/nerd_dice/blob/master/BURN_THE_CONTRIBUTOR_COVENANT_WITH_FIRE.md)


## Unlicense, License, and Copyright

The document is dual-licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) license and the [UNLICENSE](https://unlicense.org/) \(with strong preference toward the UNLICENSE\)\. The content is released under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/) \(no rights reserved\). You are free to include it in its original form or modified with or without modification in your own project\.
