SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

As-of right now, the latest patch version of each minor version is supported, but versions earlier than `0.5.x` are deprecated and will not receive additional updates after their certificate expires on February 23, 2024.

| Version | Supported                  | End of Life |
| ------- | -------------------------- | ----------- |
| 0.5.x   | :white_check_mark: Current |             |
| 0.4.x   | :warning: Deprecated       | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.3.x   | :warning: Deprecated       | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.2.x   | :warning: Deprecated       | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.1.x   | :warning: Deprecated       | 2024-02-23  |

## Certificate Signing and Checksums

The gem is currently released with a certificate so it can be installed with the `HighSecurity` policy. The SHA-256 and SHA-512 of each released version of the gem is kept in the `checksum` directory of the GitHub repository.

## Reporting a Vulnerability

Please report (suspected) security vulnerabilities to security@statelesscode.com. We make no guarantees related to turnaround time. If the issue is confirmed, we will release a patch as soon as possible depending on complexity and severity.

Commit message:

Update SECURITY and CHANGELOG with 2024 changes
Add changes for 0.5.1 to the CHANGELOG and modify the SECURITY policy to
indicate that versions lower than 0.5.x are End of Life

Contributes toward #56 Update the certificate and perform maintenance on
the gem

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

As-of right now, only the latest patch version of the `0.5.x` branch is supported. All other versions are End of Life and will no longer receive updates. Update your applications to use version `0.5.x`. Future deprecated versions will receive one year of updates after deprecation and stop receiving updates once the gem signing certificate associated with the last version expires.

| Version | Supported                  | End of Life |
| ------- | -------------------------- | ----------- |
| 0.5.x   | :white_check_mark: Current |             |
| 0.4.x   | :x: End of Life            | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.3.x   | :x: End of Life            | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.2.x   | :x: End of Life            | 2024-02-23  |
| 0.1.x   | :x: End of Life            | 2024-02-23  |

## Certificate Signing and Checksums

The gem is currently released with a certificate so it can be installed with the `HighSecurity` policy. The SHA-256 and SHA-512 of each released version of the gem is kept in the `checksum` directory of the GitHub repository.

## Reporting a Vulnerability

Please report (suspected) security vulnerabilities to security@statelesscode.com. We make no guarantees related to turnaround time. If the issue is confirmed, we will release a patch as soon as possible depending on complexity and severity.
